[AUDIO LOGO]
[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]
>> Biohacking.
It's not just about being well.
It's about being more than well.
It's the power to
transform yourself.
Are we ready?
I'm Dave Asprey, and
this is "Biohacking."
Hi, I'm Dave Asprey, the
Father of Biohacking.
This episode is all
about food and nutrition
so you know what to eat
to feel good all the time
and maybe lose weight
as a side effect.
I'll teach you how
to remove kryptonite,
the bad stuff that's present
in food, add in the good stuff,
and follow an
anti-inflammatory diet.
You'll learn about
things in your food
that are specifically associated
with living longer and reducing
your risk of chronic diseases.
Things like prebiotic
fiber, antioxidants,
saturated fat, which you
actually need in your food,
and cholesterol.
[UPBEAT MUSIC]
Nutrition isn't just about
carbs and fats and proteins.
It's the type of
carbs, the type of fat,
and the type of protein that
makes all the difference.
Different proteins
do different things
and you're going to learn
which ones you want to eat.
You need fat because it's
what makes you feel full
and it's what your
hormones are made out of.
And not all fats
are created equal.
Different fats have
different properties.
And when oxygen atoms
can stick to a molecule,
it can create a free electron.
It's called reactive
oxygen species.
And that's where inflammation
comes from in your body.
Some fats are more subject
to that than others.
Animal fats are different
than plant fats.
Saturated fats don't have
places where oxygen can stick,
so they're very stable.
On the other hand,
polyunsaturated fats, or PUFAs,
have a lot of places where
oxygen molecules can stick.
They're less stable
and they're not
what your body is built out of.
Basically, the less stable
the fat that you eat is,
the less stable the
fat in your body
is, including your white fat,
which means more inflammation.
So maybe you want
to shift your fats
towards the ones that work
better because they keep
your body from being inflamed.
Monounsaturated fats are less
stable than saturated fats,
but you still need some of
those, things like olive oil.
Polyunsaturated fats, like corn
oil, vegetable oil, canola oil,
all the nut and seed oils, the
plant-based oils, for the most
part, are polyunsaturated.
And when you minimize
those in your diet,
you find that suddenly,
everything works again.
So that's a very important
point that a lot of times people
don't talk about.
So high fat or low
fat, it doesn't
matter if you don't
know what kind of fat.
Although those omega-3s
and omega-6s are unstable,
your body needs a
small amount of those,
but a very small amount.
And today, because
they're cheaper,
restaurants and
big food companies
feed you a lot of
omega-6s and that's
behind a lot of the problems
you're having right now.
The best saturated
fats you can eat
are grass-fed tallow, butter,
ghee, MCT oil, coconut oil,
or, if you're not allergic,
raw, full fat dairy products.
That can change your life.
The good monounsaturated fats
would be whole avocados not
extracted avocado oil,
extra virgin olive oil,
or there's a new kind of oil
called cultured oil, which
is highly stable and purely
monounsaturated-- a lot
of restaurants are
starting to use that.
Polyunsaturated omega-3s, the
things that you want to take,
are high-quality krill
oil, wild seafood,
and you can actually get
omega-3s from grass-fed beef
or lamb because fish has a lot
of mercury and microplastic
concerns that it didn't
have 25 years ago.
It turns out,
grass-fed ruminants
are your secret weapon.
When it comes to polyunsaturated
omega-6s, seconds
you really want to avoid canola,
soybean, sunflower, safflower,
cottonseed, and peanut oils.
Limit the amount of pork
you eat, and chicken fat
and poultry fat also is
high in the kind of fat
that leads to inflammation.
Our Western diet has become
very high in omega-6 fats
over the past 30 years
right as our obesity levels
went through the roof.
There is so much omega-6
in the Western diet
right now that you don't have
to make sure you get enough,
the trick is to eat
as little as you can
and you'll still get
some no matter what.
You'll even find omega-6 in
foods like grass-fed beef
because it's there in a
couple percentage points.
So yes, you need omega-6s, but
not as much as you're getting.
There are also
artificial trans fats.
These are
chemically-modified seed oils
and you never want to eat those.
And right now, most foods
in the United States
have those taken out except
they leave small amounts.
So if it says
vegetable oils, you
don't really know how
much of it is trans fat.
Trans fats and omega-6
fats will increase
your risk of stroke, heart
disease, type 2 diabetes,
and obesity.
They also change a ratio
that's really important.
Your total
cholesterol isn't that
well-correlated with
any kind of disease,
but what's very
important is how much
HDL do you have versus LDL.
Trans fats wreck the
ratio so that you
don't have the protective HDL.
If you eat the way I'm
teaching you in this episode,
you will raise your
HDL levels, which
are the protective
kind of cholesterol.
There are also studies that
link artificial trans fats
to various cancers, pregnancy
complications, and even
less brain function.
And let's talk about protein.
Protein is found in
every part of your body.
It builds and gives structure
to tissues, organs, and muscles.
It also forms antibodies so that
you can fight off infections.
It makes hemoglobin so
that your blood works,
and it creates your
hormones, and so much more.
Here's what you need
to know about proteins.
Proteins are made out of
something called amino acids--
you've probably heard of
those on an ad somewhere.
Amino acids are like
letters in the alphabet.
And when you string letters
together to make a word,
that's something
called a peptide, which
is a fraction of a protein.
When you have a whole
sentence, that's
actually a piece of
protein, like a piece
of chicken breast or something.
So you have letters, you have
words, and you have sentences.
And normally, we
eat the sentences
and then our bodies
break them down
into peptides or amino acids.
And different types of proteins
have different peptides,
different words that tell
your body what to do,
and they have different amino
acids-- building blocks.
So if you eat a
plant-based protein that's
not very similar to
yours, you might not
have the amino acid
letters you would
need to build up the kind of
proteins you want in your body.
You want at least 20% of
your total daily calories
from protein.
Another way of looking
at that is about 30 grams
of protein per meal.
And this needs to be
good-quality protein
because high-quality
protein comes
from grass-fed beef,
lamb, eggs, collagen
protein, grass-fed
whey concentrate, dairy
if you can handle dairy, and
even a small amount of organ
meat.
You could have A2
raw cow's milk.
You could have sheep.
You can have goat.
You could even eat a little
bit of pasteurized pork,
but not too much.
You want to limit your
poultry because it
has too much of the bad fat.
And you want to limit
your farmed seafood
because it has high amounts
of polychlorinated biphenyls,
or PCBs and mercury.
What you do want
to eat is bivalves.
Mussels, oysters,
clams, or younger fish
that are smaller so they
have less time to build up
mercury in their bodies.
Wild sockeye salmon is one of
the best fishes you could eat.
You want to avoid plant-based
meat substitutes, and that's
because they have
very little protein,
and the protein they
have comes from plants.
If you would eat 30 grams
of animal-based protein,
you would get the
benefits of it.
30 grams of plant-based
protein doesn't
provide the same amino acids,
the same building blocks.
Big food companies will
tell you that this plant
protein is the
same as this animal
protein "because protein."
Plant proteins also
have the problem
of being high in toxic
heavy metals, like arsenic.
Brown rice protein is
usually high in arsenic.
And all plant proteins come
packaged with anti-nutrients.
This is how plants protect
themselves from us eating them.
Since they can't run away,
they coat their proteins
in things that
inflame our bodies.
You can have some plants--
you eat the plants, but to
concentrate those proteins
instead of eating the proteins
that are compatible with us
isn't a great idea.
And then we get to carbs.
Your main source of carbs
should be vegetables.
The reality is that most
plants are out to get you.
They don't have claws
or legs to run away.
And if you don't
believe me, if you
were to go outside
right now and just
pick a plant from your front
yard or from the forest
and eat a couple bites
of it-- don't do this,
you're going to have
profound stomach aches
and could even go
to the hospital.
That's how plants
really treat us.
So the fact that something is
plant-based or not plant-based,
it doesn't matter.
You need to know exactly what
it is and what it does to you.
And one of the
anti-nutrients that
is just running havoc
across our society right now
is called phytic acid.
Plants use phytic acid to bind
to calcium, iron, magnesium,
chromium, manganese, and zinc.
These are the minerals that
your body needs in order
to function every day.
So the plants know if they
steal these minerals from you,
over time, they'll
be less humans,
so therefore, there
can be more plants.
And phytic acid
creates phytate when
it binds to those
minerals, and then
your body can absorb the
minerals in your diet,
but it'll literally suck
them from your bones
and from your tissues.
And this is why a lot
of times as people age,
they start breaking
their hips, they
start breaking their bones.
We're seeing an epidemic
of bone density problems
even in young people because
we're eating plants high
in phytic acid and we're not
getting enough minerals even
to make enzymes.
Where does phytic
acid come from?
Nuts, seeds, beans legumes,
whole grains, soy, corn.
And most of all, oats.
Your oat milk is
not a good decision.
In addition to
osteoporosis, we're
seeing an epidemic of
metabolic dysfunction
because when your body
needs a mineral in order
to make your cells make
energy and the mineral just
isn't there because a plant
stole it because someone
tricked you into eating more
plants and less meat, well,
you're just going to be
tired, and your system
won't work well, and you will
be metabolically dysregulated.
That's exactly what happened to
me when I weighed 300 pounds.
The other thing that plants make
is something called lectins.
And lectins are something
that may interfere
with your absorption
of minerals,
but these are
little proteins that
stick to the types of sugars
that line your joints, line
your arteries.
Not everyone is sensitive
to every type of lectin,
but most of us have
some sensitivities.
If you eat a food that
your ancestors never ate,
you're likely to have problems.
If you eat a food that
your ancestors have
eaten for thousands
of years, you're
less likely to have problems.
But if you're
sensitive to a lectin--
and lectins can come in any
of those types of plants,
but specifically nightshade
vegetables and nuts
and seeds and grains
are very high in them,
those lectins can
create microscopic holes
in your intestinal wall.
Nightshade vegetables,
which is one of the largest
sources of lectins
that are aggressive,
they make lectin that
can stick to glucosamine
which is the compound
found in your joints.
So if you find you always have
joint pain and inflammation
and sore muscles, you
might want to look
at whether white potatoes,
eggplants, peppers,
and tomatoes, and chili
peppers, maybe that's
kryptonite for you,
but maybe it isn't
kryptonite for someone else.
That's one of those
suspect foods.
Another major
problem and something
that affected me when I
was a raw vegan before I
learned better is something
called oxalic acid or oxalates.
If you look in raw spinach,
kale, rhubarb, even
raw almonds, these are
relatively high in oxalic acid,
which, when you eat it, it
circulates in your blood
and it finds calcium.
And it binds to
calcium and forms
tiny razor-sharp crystals.
And those get deposited
in your joints.
It's a major cause of gout.
In your kidneys it's a major
cause of kidney stones today.
And they can cause systemic
pain in other ways.
So maybe that raw
spinach and raw kale
smoothie or that
green powder, you
thought because it
was plant-based,
it was good for
you, but it may be
why you get that
afternoon brain fog, why
your joints hurt all the time,
why your muscles are always
tense.
Sometimes getting rid
of the suspect foods
makes you feel better.
So what vegetables
should you eat?
Steamed broccoli,
cauliflower, Brussels sprouts,
carrots, cucumbers, squash,
those work for most people.
And now let's talk about
the other sources of starch
or carbohydrate because
your body does not need
to be in ketosis all the time.
That is a myth.
You can use ketosis
to lose weight,
but then you want
to have some carbs.
It's not something you do
for long periods of time
because it breaks almost
everyone's biology eventually.
So where do you get your carbs
without getting all those plant
toxins?
It's a major problem.
Well, the best source
of carbs is white rice.
And white rice has the toxic
aggressive part, the brown part
of the rice removed.
Yes, fiber was removed,
too, you ate some broccoli,
you have plenty of fiber.
Plantains are very good.
Butternut squash is good.
Sweet potato is
good unless you're
very sensitive to oxalates.
And the fruits that are lower in
fructose, like berries, lemons,
limes, and even raw
honey is a good source
of carbohydrate for you.
The other thing that you don't
hear much about these days
is prebiotic fiber.
So everyone's heard of fiber
because of ads for Metamucil
and things like that
that are like sawdust.
There's something different
called prebiotic fiber,
and this is food for
the good gut bacteria
that you want to
grow in your stomach.
When you eat
prebiotic fiber, you
grow the good guys that
produce short-chain fatty
acids, something
like butyrate, which
is shown in studies
to strengthen
your brain and your gut.
So eat the stuff that's
food for the good guys,
more good guys grow, and
then they make things
that your body needs.
That's a pretty amazing thing.
In fact, there's a
study in the Netherlands
that showed there
was a 9% reduced risk
of total death for every
10 grams of prebiotic fiber
in people's diets.
So 10 grams is not a
lot of prebiotic fiber.
You can get it from food or
you can even take a supplement.
Prebiotic fiber is going to
be found in Brussels sprouts,
asparagus, even coffee.
If you make it with a metal
filter, it has prebiotic fiber.
Chocolate has prebiotic fiber.
And I think you should consider
using a prebiotic fiber
in a powder form because
it makes it very easy,
and then you know you've always
got food for the good guys.
That alone could
shift your weight.
There are other food toxins
that are part of my diet plan
because some of us are
more sensitive than others.
And one of the big
ones is histamine.
And we've all heard of
histamine because you take
Benadryl as an antihistamine.
We all hear about allergies.
But histamine is a
signaling molecule
in the body that
says, get inflamed
because there's a threat.
Well, bacteria in
food make histamine.
So some foods, when they start
to break down-- even just
leftovers overnight in the
fridge, things like fish
or pork or soy,
overnight leftovers
can have histamine
because bacteria got going
and the bacteria
are making histamine
so that we won't eat them.
If you eat a food that's
high in histamine, it's
going to trigger your own
body's allergic response,
and many people,
especially post-pandemic,
if they're dealing with long
COVID or any other things
like that, people
who've had toxic molds,
those high-histamine foods
are seriously a problem.
And you eat one, you get brain
fog, you get itchy, you cough,
your nose runs, and you
can even become inflamed
and get muffin top from that.
So knowing this
may be in your food
helps you know why that food
created that feeling in you.
One of the reasons that people
get sensitive to histamine
in food is because
they don't make
enough DAO, which is the enzyme
that breaks down histamine.
And you could test
yourself by eating
a bunch of histamine-rich
foods and seeing how you feel.
It's easy.
Cook some fish, let it sit
in the fridge for two days,
and then eat it.
You also could just
eat fish sauce.
You could have smoked meat.
You could have shellfish and
leftovers or soy sauce, which
is also very high in histamine.
If you get heartburn, runny
nose, nausea, coughing,
sinus issues, itchy skin,
rashes, sensitivity to light,
inability to sleep,
brain fog, you
can take the DAO
enzyme as a supplement,
or you could even take a small
piece of a Benadryl capsule
if you know you've been exposed.
My goal is that when
you're done eating a meal,
you feel better than
before you ate the meal
and you don't get a
crash and a sugar craving
a half hour or an hour
later, and sometimes knowing
about histamine is the trick.
The other problem
that's in food,
and something I'm
very well known
for because I made a coffee
that was free of toxin mold,
is that mold toxins are
common in our food supply.
Aflatoxins are the
most famous ones.
They can cause DNA damage
and liver cancer in humans.
In fact, it's the most
cancer-causing substance
we've found so far.
It's made by mold that
grows on peanuts and wheat.
Common sources of mycotoxins
include grains, corn, peanuts,
nuts, coffee, chocolate,
and beer and wine.
In the US and Canada,
there are no limits
on mold toxins found in coffee
even though in Japan and China
and Europe, there are limits.
So sometimes the
world's lowest-quality,
highest-mold foods
get sent to the US,
and then we drink our
coffee or we drink our wine
or we eat our grains, and
then we don't feel very good,
and our gut is off, and
it's just not a great day.
It can be because
of mold toxins.
If you eliminate high-mold foods
like grains, nuts, legumes,
and even alcohol,
and you replace them
with organic grass-fed
beef and dairy,
and you get high-quality,
lab-tested, clean coffee,
maybe even with added minerals
that would be really, really
good for you, the difference
in a bad cup of moldy coffee
and a good cup of
coffee is profound.
You also find that glyphosate
is in a lot of food,
especially in the US and Canada.
Glyphosate, also known
as Roundup, is a toxin.
It destroys soil.
and.
It accumulates in fat
and neurological tissues.
It disrupts your gut microbiome.
And it's linked to cancer, in
fact, in multiple lawsuits.
Even worse, it modifies
your mitochondrial membrane.
This is an internal
part of your cell
that makes electricity
and makes sex hormones.
So we're poisoning
ourselves with small amounts
of glyphosate in our food, our
energy production goes down,
and then you just don't feel as
good in everything feels hard.
Your job is to eat food that
makes everything feel easy.
Glyphosate also acts
as an anti-nutrient
because it binds to essential
minerals that your body needed.
So the plants are already
doing that to you, we're
adding glyphosate
to them so that when
you eat that wheat that was
sprayed with glyphosate,
you're losing even
more minerals.
And as I mentioned, it does
kill bacteria and topsoil,
and unfortunately, it
also kills earthworms.
So you really want to
choose organic food.
You want to avoid grains,
especially in the US,
because even organic
grains now can
have high levels of glyphosate.
And this is because
we're using so much of it
that it gets into the water
and gets recirculated.
Wash your vegetables well.
Choose organic, grass-fed,
grass-finished beef
because it has the
lowest glyphosate.
Another thing
that's really going
to change your brain
function and make you fat
is artificial additives
like sweeteners.
They disrupt your gut bacteria,
things like sucralose,
things like Nutrasweet
or aspartame.
They are provably bad
for you and there's
no reason to eat
them because there
are natural things like
monkfruit that work
just fine that don't do that.
Artificial colorings are
linked to brain problems,
especially in kids.
There's no reason
to use fake colors
except that they're cheap.
It's not worth trading
off your ability
to focus and pay attention to
have a special color in a food.
Artificial flavors almost
universally disrupt
systems in the body,
you don't want them.
MSG, even when it's not
labeled as MSG on a label,
will cause food
cravings after a meal.
And the reason for
that is that MSG
causes your neurons to fire.
And too much glutamate,
which is the G in MSG,
will overexcite your
neurons even to the point
that some of your
brain neurons can die.
And how do if it's MSG?
Well, MSG has about 75
different code words,
but if it says "natural
flavorings" or "spice
extracts," there's MSG in it
even if they don't tell you.
So more grass-fed animals,
less bad oils, less chemicals,
and the right kinds
of starch, but how
do you know how
much of this to eat?
Well, when you follow
this type of diet,
your body will naturally
regulate your hunger.
There is no benefit to
counting calories at all.
Here's proof.
When I was creating
The Bulletproof Diet,
I wanted to just
disrupt this idea
that calories in and calories
out made a difference.
So I said I was going to
eat 4,000 calories a day,
I was going to stop
exercising, and I
was going to limit my sleep
to five hours a night.
And I was only going
to do it for a month.
And for that month, I thought I
would maybe gain 2 or 3 pounds,
but the math would say I
should gain a lot more,
and I was going to talk about
how different calories do
different things.
I lost weight.
And I kept doing it
for more than a year
and I grew abs, which is
completely ridiculous.
It's not good for
you to overeat,
but what I'm telling
you is if you
eat the right kinds of foods,
you will regulate your hunger,
and it's very, very
hard to gain weight.
A cyclical keto diet
is a really good idea
if you're trying to lose weight.
Now unending keto
trashes your thyroid
because it lowers
your T3 hormone.
I've seen this over and
over in men and women.
You go on the Keto
diet, including me.
You feel really
good, so then you
decide you'll always be on it.
And then after a while,
things aren't good anymore.
This is why I've been teaching
for more than 10 years,
go into ketosis,
go out of ketosis.
Go in, go out.
And this allows your body to
stay in a lower stress level
so you don't get a
big spike in cortisol.
You can become metabolically
inflexible to the point
where your cells don't handle
carbohydrates very well if you
never eat carbs.
Before we called it that,
I tried The Carnivore Diet.
And I went for three
months on meat only.
Well, meat and coffee.
And I did not have enough carbs
to maintain my gut lining.
So what I ended up
with was leaky gut,
my sleep quality
was dysregulated,
my cortisol levels
were too high,
and it took me a while
to recover from that.
This is why I highly
recommend that you schedule
a carb-up a few days a week.
And if you're an athlete
training heavy or a woman,
you might need to have
carbs twice a week
even though your lower-carb
on the other days.
And you might do
a week of ketosis,
but don't do months of ketosis
because it will break you.
So keto is like a
scalpel, you don't
want to use it all the time.
But most important
of all this, you've
got to find your
personal kryptonite.
Not all people respond
the same way to all foods.
So you may be sitting there,
and your husband or your wife,
they can eat something,
and when you eat it,
like wow, I get inflammation
and I get muffin top.
I'm bloated, my
brain doesn't work.
It doesn't mean that
the food is good or bad,
it means it was compatible with
you or not compatible with you.
When you're doing
The Elimination Diet,
you will need only Green
Zone foods for two weeks.
And you can download
the diet for free.
Go to daveasprey.com/roadmap.
And what that'll do is tell
you everything on one page.
Good proteins, bad proteins.
Good carbs, bad carbs.
Just eat from the top of it.
And at the end of two
weeks, see how you feel.
And you might feel amazing.
Then you can add
some foods back.
And when you add
those foods back in,
you can test your pulse to see
if you're allergic to them.
So you get your pulse
when you wake up,
or even a pulse before
a meal-- usually
your watch will do
that these days.
And then 30 minutes, 60 minutes,
and 90 minutes after a meal,
take your heart rate.
If it goes up by
17 beats a minute,
you were sensitive to something
in the meal that you just had.
You can also get blood tests.
There are other
ways of doing this,
but seriously, two weeks
of eating super clean,
limited, just to get
rid of all the suspects,
see how your brain works, see
how you feel, see how you look,
see how your pants fit.
You might be amazed
to realize something
that you enjoy is
really not good for you,
so you want to find something
else you enjoy even more that
makes you feel amazing.
The best test of
all, though, is when
you wake up in the morning,
is your brain turned on?
Are your joints stiff?
Does your back hurt?
Do you feel like crawling out
of bed or jumping out of bed?
When you dial your food
in at lunch, at dinner
the day before, when you wake
up, your body feels amazing.
By now, you might have
noticed that a lot
of the foods that advertisers
have told you are healthy,
things like plant-based, which
is another word for highly
processed, things
like plant-based oils,
those are not doing
you any favors.
And if you look around, we
have more obesity on the planet
than we ever have before,
and we're eating less meat
than ever before.
There are thousands-- actually,
tens of thousands of studies
looking at protein
quality, and the reality
is that when you add
more animal-based protein
and animal-based fats to your
diet, you will be healthier.
There's an orchestrated campaign
to convince you to give those
up, and when you do it
reliably, you lose muscles,
you lose bone density, and you
become a weaker human being.
My job is to teach you how to
eat the foods that give you
so much energy that
at the end of the day,
you still have some left over.
So you can use that energy
to upgrade yourself,
to transform yourself.
That's why eating is important.
It's about how much energy you
have to bring to the world,
it's not about how you look.
You will lose weight
as a side effect
if you need to lose weight, if
you eat to have maximum energy.
And it is so liberating.
Having lost the 100 pounds
myself, but more importantly,
having turned my brain back
on, your brain requires energy.
And if your body is hoarding
energy by storing fat,
because you're giving it
toxins, because you're
eating the wrong stuff for
you, then of course your brain
isn't going to have all the
energy you want to have.
So I want you to feel
amazing all the time.
That's why this is such an
important episode for you.
I'm Dave Asprey, and
this is "Biohacking."